# Weekly Process Logs
## Week 1: January 10 - 14
The [Scope of Work](scope-of-work/README.md) document was created and signed this week.

## Week 2: January 15 - 21
Week 2 was the first real week of work on this project, as the first week was dedicated to administrative activities like planning. These administrative things are still very important though, and even this week was split between beginning development and still planning for the future.

This week when meeting with my advisor, we mostly discussed my scope of work document that I created last week. Matt also brought up a different kind of planning document that I could work on in addition to my timeline that I included in the scope of work. This second document is more of a requirements based spreadsheet, but much more detailed, and is focused on the overall user experience of the game from start-up to shut-down. I got a start on this document this week, but haven't made too much progress on it yet as I just met with Matt yesterday. My scope of work document made it clear that I still am not 100% committed on what the *exact* user experience I am developing, though I have a very good understanding of the feelings I want to convey and the overall broader shape and form of the deliverable. But I only outlined that in 4 broad and vague "objectives" bullet points, and I'm looking forward to working on this document so I can 100% understand myself what exactly it is that I am creating this semester. I haven't included that document in this repository yet because I'm not done with it, but next week's process log will certainly have a link to it.

As far as development progress goes, my general timeline layed out in the scope of work document says that this I am starting from scratch on a new generative plant algorithm. And that I am! I started out by reading several papers from the Biological Modeling and Visualization research group out of University of Calgary. I first discovered their website http://algorithmicbotany.org/ about a year ago when I was looking for some project ideas and inspiration while I was taking a course on biological modeling. They have done multiple papers outlining various different methods for computational models of plant and tree structures, and I hope that if I can't combine them all (or even just some of them) into my own personalized algorithm, I hope I can at least implement my favorite algorithm of them all. I have already gotten a start working on building up a space colonization algorithm based on the procedure outlined in [Modeling Trees with a Space Colonization Algorithm](http://algorithmicbotany.org/papers/colonization.egwnp2007.large.pdf) by Adam Runions et al. I chose to start with that algorithm as a base, and modify things from there, because it's the most interesting and enticing approach that I've read so far. But I hope to read even more papers, and hopefully include insights from them in my development process too. I've already read many great ideas that I'd like to look into including in the future, such as [L-systems](http://algorithmicbotany.org/papers/modeling-plant-development-with-l-systems.pdf), and [structural analysis](http://algorithmicbotany.org/papers/quantifying-the-degree-of-self-nestedness.pdf). But I can't include those ideas yet, because so far I have pretty much nothing. I have a solid-ish start on the space colonization algorithm, but only through numbers based debugging and testing, I have nothing exciting or visual to show in a process log. Next week there will be some very fun screenshots though, as I will have a much more solid algorithm in my hands by that time! And for now, I consider even my research to be enough progress, so I'm glad to have gotten a bit of a head start on the coding as well.
